Add a blog of network traffic analyzing for both Ambient and Sidecar (#13834)
istio/istio.io: content/en/blog/2023/traffic-for-ambient-and-sidecar/index.md

---
title: "Deep Dive into the Network Traffic Path of the Coexistence of Ambient and Sidecar"
description: "Deep Dive into the Traffic Path of the Coexistence of Ambient and Sidecar."
publishdate: 2023-09-15
attribution: "Steve Zhang (Intel), John Howard (Google), Yuxing Zeng(Alibaba)"
keywords: [traffic,ambient,sidecar,coexistence]
---

> There are 2 modes for Istio: ambient and sidecar. The former is still on the way, the latter is the classic one. Therefore, the coexistence of ambient and sidecar should be a normal deployment form and the reason why this blog may be helpful for Istio users.

Author: @peterj  okay, `deployment mode` would be reasonable, if so I will add sidecar mode or ambient mode in all the blog

> There are 2 modes for Istio: ambient and sidecar, the former is still on the way, the latter is the classic one. Therefore, the coexistence of ambient and sidecar should be a normal deployment form. That's the reason why this blog may be helpful for Istio users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are 2 modes for Istio: ambient and sidecar. The former is still on the way, the latter is the classic one. Therefore, the coexistence of ambient and sidecar should be a normal deployment form and the reason why this blog may be helpful for Istio users.
```

Author: Okay, already done!

## Background

> In the architecture of modern microservices, communication and management among services is critical. To address the challenge, Istio emerged as a service mesh technology. It provides traffic control, security, and superior observation capabilities by importing the sidecar. In order to further improve the adaptability and flexibility of Istio, the Istio community began to explore a new mode - ambient mode. In this mode, Istio no longer relies on explicit sidecar injection, but achieves communication and mesh management among services through ztunnel and waypoint proxies. Ambient also brings a series of improvements, such as lower resource consumption, simpler deployment, more flexible configuration options, and non-restarting for pods when enabling ambient, enabling Istio to play a better role in various scenarios.

Author: @peterj  okay, updated

> In the architecture of modern microservices, communication and management among services is critical. To address the challenge, Istio emerged as a service mesh technology. It provides traffic control, security, and superior observation capabilities by importing the sidecar. In order to further improve the adaptability and flexibility of Istio, the Istio community began to explore a new mode - ambient mode. In this mode, Istio no longer relies on explicit sidecar injection, but achieves communication and mesh management among services through ztunnel and waypoint proxies. Ambient also brings a series of improvements, such as lower resource consumption, simpler deployment, more flexible configuration options, and non-restarting for pods when enabling ambient, enabling Istio to play a better role in various scenarios.

Author: @peterj okay, changed!

> There are many blogs to introduce and analyze ambient in community and technology forums, and this blog will analyze the network traffic path in Istio ambient and sidecar modes. We will analyze the network traffic path between services in these two modes.

Author: @peterj  great idea, it makes sense, I will add them later!

> There are many blogs to introduce and analyze ambient in community and technology forums, and this blog will analyze the network traffic path in Istio ambient and sidecar modes. We will analyze the network traffic path between services in these two modes.

Author: Hi @peterj, in fact I notice that there are some docs from external sites, but I am not sure that they are already outdated or not. If they are outdated, I hope it should not be here which may cause misunderstanding. Is that correct?

> In order to clarify the network traffic paths, this blog will explore two concrete scenarios with corresponding diagram to make it easier to understand. These two scenarios include:

Author: @peterj  okay, already done!

- **The network path of services in ambient mode to services in sidecar mode**
- **The network path of services in sidecar mode to services in ambient mode**

> _Note 1: The following analysis is based on Istio 1.18.2 which ambient only use iptables as the redirection mode._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Note 1: The following analysis is based on Istio 1.18.2, where ambient mode uses iptables for redirection._
```

Author: already done!

> _Note 2: The communications between sidecar and ztunnel/waypoint proxy is based on HBONE._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Note 2: The communications between sidecar and ztunnel/waypoint proxy uses [HTTP Based Overlay Network (HBONE)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ofqtxqzk-c_wn0EgAXjaJXDHB9KhDuLe-W3YGG67Y8g/edit)._
```

Author: already done

## Ambient sleep to sidecar httpbin

### Deployment and configuration for the first scenario

- sleep is deployed in namespace foo
    - sleep pod is scheduled to Node A
- httpbin is deployed in namespace bar
    - httpbin is scheduled to Node B
- foo namespace enables ambient mode (foo namespace contains label: `istio.io/dataplane-mode=ambient`)

> - bar namespace enables sidecar injection (bar namespace contains label: `istio-injection: enabled`)

Author: Hi @linsun, besides the ambient and sidecar mode enabling, we also want to describe the deployment, including namespaces and nodes.  I understand that I just need to add the label for different mode in diagram, then unnecessary this whole section, am I right?

With the above description, the deployment and network traffic paths are:

{{< image width="100%"
    link="ambient-to-sidecar.png"
    caption="Ambient sleep to Sidecar httpbin"
    >}}

> `ztunnel` will be deployed as a DaemonSet in istio-system namespace if ambient is enabled, while istio-cni and ztunnel would generate iptables rules and routes for both the ztunnel pod and pods on each node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ztunnel will be deployed as a DaemonSet in istio-system namespace if ambient is enabled, while istio-cni and ztunnel would generate iptables rules and routes for both the ztunnel pod and pods on each node.
```

For consistency, either backtick all or none. I don't believe ztunnel needs to be backticked and that seems to be the primary method employed throughout the blog.

Author: sure, already done!

> All network traffic coming in/out of the pod with ambient enabled will go through ztunnel based on the network the redirection logic. The ztunnel will then forward the traffic to the correct endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All network traffic coming in/out of the pod with ambient enabled will go through ztunnel based on the network redirection logic. The ztunnel will then forward the traffic to the correct endpoints.
```

Author: okay, already done!

### sleep -> ztunnel -> [ sidecar -> httpbin ] network traffic path

According to above diagram, the details of network traffic path is demonstrated as below:

> **(1) (2) (3)**  Request traffic of service sleep is sent out from the `veth` of the sleep pod, then it will be marked and forwarded to the `istioout` device in the node by following the iptables rules and route rules. The `istioout` device in the node A is a `[geneve](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8926.html)` tunnel, and the other end of the tunnel is `pistioout`, which is inside the ztunnel pod on the same node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**(1) (2) (3)**  Request traffic of the sleep service is sent out from the `veth` of the sleep pod where it will be marked and forwarded to the `istioout` device in the node by following the iptables rules and route rules. The `istioout` device in the node A is a `[geneve](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8926.html)` tunnel, and the other end of the tunnel is `pistioout`, which is inside the ztunnel pod on the same node.
```

Author: Sure, already done!

> **(4) (5)**  When the traffic arrives `pistioout` device, it will be intercepted through the interface `eth0` of the ztunnel pod on port 15001 by iptables rules inside the pod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**(4) (5)**  When the traffic arrives through the `pistioout` device, it will be intercepted and redirected through the interface `eth0` of the ztunnel pod on port 15001 by iptables rules inside the pod.
```

Author: okay, already done!

> **(6)** According to the original request information, ztunnel can obtain the endpoint list of the target service. It will then handle sending the request to the endpoint, such as one of the httpbin pods. At last, the request traffic would get into the httpbin pod via the container network.

Reviewer 2: @zhlsunshine not sure if you wanted to update the last two sentences here as well?

> **(6)** According to the original request information, ztunnel can obtain the endpoint list of the target service.  It will then handle sending the request to the endpoint, such as one of the httpbin pods. At last, the request traffic would get into the httpbin pod via the container network.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**(6)** According to the original request information, ztunnel can obtain the endpoint list of the target service. It will then handle sending the request to the endpoint, such as one of the httpbin pods. At last, the request traffic would get into the httpbin pod via the container network.
```

**(7)**  The request traffic arriving in httpbin pod will be intercepted and redirected through port 15006 of the sidecar by its iptables rules.

**(8)**  Sidecar will handle the inbound request traffic coming in via port 15006, and forward the traffic to the httpbin container in the same pod.

## Sidecar sleep to ambient httpbin and helloworld

### Deployment and configuration for the second scenario

- sleep is deployed in namespace foo
    - sleep pod is scheduled to Node A
- httpbin deployed in namespace bar-1
    - httpbin pod is scheduled to Node B
    - the waypoint proxy of httpbin is disable
- helloworld is deployed in namespace bar-2
    - helloworld pod is scheduled to Node D
    - the waypoint proxy of helloworld is enabled
    - the waypoint proxy is scheduled to Node C

> - foo namespace enables sidecar injection (foo namespace contains label: `istio-injection: enabled`)

Author: Hi @linsun,  besides the waypoint, we also want to imitate that both waypoint proxy and workload pod may be scheduled in different nodes.

    link="sidecar-to-ambient.png"
    caption="sleep to httpbin and helloworld"
    >}}

### [ sleep -> sidecar ] -> ztunnel -> httpbin network traffic path

Based on the above deployment, the first part is shown on top half of the diagram: the network traffic path of the sleep pod in sidecar mode to the httpbin pod in ambient mode.

**(1) (2) (3) (4)** the sleep container sends a request to httpbin. The request is intercepted by iptables rules and directed to port 15001 of the sleep pod sidecar. Then, the sidecar handles the request and routing rules by following configurations distributed by the control plane. Next, the request traffic is forwarded to a specific httpbin pod in node B, identified by its ip address.

**(5) (6)**  After the request is sent to the device pair (`veth httpbin <-> eth0 inside httpbin pod`), the request would be intercepted and forwarded to the `istioin` device on the node B where httpbin pod is running by following its iptables and route rules. The `istioin` device in the node B is a `[geneve](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8926.html)` tunnel, and the other side of this tunnel is `pistioin` device which is inside the ztunnel pod of node B.

> **(7) (8)** After the request enters the `pistioin` device of the ztunnel pod, the request is intercepted and redirected through port 15008 of the ztunnel pod by the iptables rules of the ztunnel pod on node B.

Author: okay, already done!

**(9)** The traffic getting into the port 15008 would be considered as a inbound request, then ztunnel will forward the request to the httpbin pod in the same node B.

> ### [ sleep-> sidecar ] -> waypoint -> ztunnel -> helloworld network traffic path

Author: Hi @peterj, if so , all the subtitle should be changed in the same style?

> ### [ sleep-> sidecar ] -> waypoint -> ztunnel -> helloworld httpbin network traffic path

Reviewer 4: both hw and httpbin here?

Author: Nice catch, this is a mistake, updated, thanks!

> Comparing with the first part of the diagram, it's clear that the waypoint proxy is added in path **"[ sleep -> sidecar ] -> ztunnel -> httpbin"**. The Istio control plane has all information of service and configuration of the service mesh. When helloworld is configured with a waypoint proxy, the EDS configuration of helloworld service received by sidecar of sleep pod will be changed to the type of `envoy_internal_address`. This causes that the request traffic going through the sidecar to be forwarded to port 15008 of the waypoint proxy on node C via the `[HBONE](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ofqtxqzk-c_wn0EgAXjaJXDHB9KhDuLe-W3YGG67Y8g/edit)` protocol.

Author: Okay, another consider here is that: we do not want to use the personal pronouns. so I updated it based on the second comment as below:
```
of the service mesh. When helloworld pod is deployed with a waypoint proxy, the EDS configuration for the helloworld service received by the sidecar in the sleep pod is changed to the type of envoy_internal_address. This allows the traffic going ...
```

> Comparing with the first part of the diagram, it's clear that the waypoint proxy is added in path **"[ sleep -> sidecar ] -> ztunnel -> httpbin"**. The Istio control plane has all information of service and configuration of the service mesh. When helloworld is configured with a waypoint proxy, the EDS configuration of helloworld service received by sidecar of sleep pod will be changed to the type of `envoy_internal_address`. This causes that the request traffic going through the sidecar to be forwarded to port 15008 of the waypoint proxy on node C via the `[HBONE](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ofqtxqzk-c_wn0EgAXjaJXDHB9KhDuLe-W3YGG67Y8g/edit)` protocol.

Reviewer 4: given this is a deep dive, i'd expect a snippet of waypoint config here.

Author: Hi @linsun, as you know, the situation is changing so such detail information may be outdated very soon. How about to just mention the basic implementation?

> Similar to sidecar, waypoint proxy is based on envoy and it will forward the request to the helloworld pod based on envoy L7 routing strategy.

Author: okay, agree. Already done!

## Wrapping up

> Sidecar mode is significant to make Istio a great service mesh solution. However, it also causes some problems because app and sidecar containers must be in a pod together. Istio ambient mode implements communication among services through centralized proxies (ztunnel and waypoint). This mode provides greater flexibility and scalability, reduces resource consumption through not needing a sidecar for each pod in the mesh, and allows more precise configuration. Therefore,  it's no doubt that ambient mode is the next evolution of Istio. Currently, ambient is still alpha and sidecar mode is still the recommended mode of Istio. The coexistence of sidecar and ambient modes may be last for a while before we're "all in ambient".

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Sidecar mode is significant to make Istio a great service mesh solution. However, it also causes some problems because app and sidecar containers must be in a pod together. Istio ambient mode implements communication among services through centralized proxies (ztunnel and waypoint). This mode provides greater flexibility and scalability, reduces resource consumption through not needing a sidecar for each pod in the mesh, and allows more precise configuration. Therefore, it's no doubt that ambient mode is the next evolution of Istio. Currently, ambient is still alpha and sidecar mode is still the recommended mode of Istio. The coexistence of sidecar and ambient modes may be last for a while before we're "all in ambient".
```

> Sidecar mode is significant to make Istio a great service mesh solution. However, it also causes some problems because app and sidecar containers must be in a pod together. Istio ambient mode implements communication among services through centralized proxies (ztunnel and waypoint). This mode provides greater flexibility and scalability, reduces resource consumption through not needing a sidecar for each pod in the mesh, and allows more precise configuration. Therefore, it's no doubt that ambient mode is the next evolution of Istio. Currently, ambient is still alpha and sidecar mode is still the recommended mode of Istio. The coexistence of sidecar and ambient modes may be last for a while before we're "all in ambient".

Author: okay, it's make sense, updated!

> Sidecar mode is significant to make Istio a great service mesh solution. However, it also causes some problems because app and sidecar containers must be in a pod together. Istio ambient mode implements communication among services through centralized proxies (ztunnel and waypoint). This mode provides greater flexibility and scalability, reduces resource consumption through not needing a sidecar for each pod in the mesh, and allows more precise configuration. Therefore, it's no doubt that ambient mode is the next evolution of Istio. Currently, ambient is still alpha and sidecar mode is still the recommended mode of Istio. The coexistence of sidecar and ambient modes may be last a very long time and users can choose what is best for them at the pace they desire.

Author: almost done!  Except the last change, we do not want to use personal pronouns, and we also want to let user know all the information, so I update the last change as below:

```
It's obvious that the coexistence of sidecar and ambient modes may be last a very long time, although the ambient mode is still in alpha stage and the sidecar mode is still the recommended mode of Istio, it will give users a more light-weight option of running and adopting the Istio service mesh as the ambient mode moves towards beta and future releases.
```

---
title: "Deep Dive into the Network Traffic Path of the Coexistence of Ambient and Sidecar"
description: "Deep Dive into the Traffic Path of the Coexistence of Ambient and Sidecar."
publishdate: 2023-09-15
attribution: "Steve Zhang (Intel), John Howard (Google), Yuxing Zeng(Alibaba)"
keywords: [traffic,ambient,sidecar,coexistence]
---

> There are 2 modes for Istio: Ambient and Sidecar, the former is still on the way, the latter is the classic one. therefore, the coexistence of Ambient and Sidecar should be a normal deployment form. That's the reason why this blog may be helpful for Istio users.

Author: okay

## Background

> In the architecture of modern microservices, communication and management among services is critical. To address the challenge, Istio emerge as a service mesh technology. It provides traffic control, security, and superior observation capabilities by importing the sidecar. In order to further improve the adaptability and flexibility of Istio, the Istio community began to explore a new evolution mode - Ambient mode. In this mode, Istio no longer relies on explicit sidecar injection, but achieve the communication and management among services through ztunnel and waypoint proxies. Ambient also brings a series of improvements, such as lower resource consumption, simpler deployment, more flexible configuration options and non-restarting for pod when enabling ambient, enabling Istio to play a better role in various scenarios.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In modern microservices architecture, communication and management among services are critical. To address the challenge, Istio has emerged as a service mesh technology. It provides traffic control, security, and superior observation capabilities by introducing the sidecar. To further enhance the adaptability and flexibility of Istio, the Istio community has begun exploring a new dataplane mode - Ambient mode. In this mode, Istio no longer relies on explicit sidecar injection, but achieves the communication and management among services through ztunnel and waypoint proxies. Ambient also brings a series of improvements, such as lower resource consumption, simpler deployment, more flexible configuration options and eliminating needs for pod restarts when enabling ambient, enabling Istio to play a better role in various scenarios.
```

Reviewer 5: I think there may be a capitalization issue of word `Ambient`, some are lower cases and some are upper cases.

Author: Yeah, thanks @hanxiaop, I'm checking on it ^_^

Reviewer: `ambient` is lower-case. If I remember correctly, the only time it should be capitalized is when it's grammatically correct to do so (ie, headers and beginning of sentences).

Author: okay, got it, I will update all of them

There are many blogs to introduce and analyze Ambient in community and technology forums, and this blog will analyze the network traffic path in Istio Ambient and Sidecar modes, focusing on analyzing what's the network traffic path between services in these two modes.

In order to clarify the network traffic paths, this blog will explore two concrete scenarios with corresponding diagram to make it easier to understand. These two scenarios include:

- **The network path of service in Ambient mode to service in Sidecar mode**

> - **The network path of service in Sidecar mode to service in Ambient mode**

Author: already done!

> _Note: The following analysis is based on istio 1.18.2, and Ambient is using iptables as the default redirection mode instead of eBPF._

Author: okay, got it

> ## ## Ambient sleep to Sidecar httpbin

Reviewer 5: Extra hashtags?

Author: it's my mistake

### Deployment and configuration for the first scenario

- sleep is deployed in namespace foo
    - sleep pod is scheduled to Node A
- httpbin is deployed in namespace bar
    - httpbin is scheduled to Node B
- foo namespace enables ambient mode (foo namespace contains label: `istio.io/dataplane-mode=ambient`)
- bar namespace enables sidecar injection (bar namespace contains label: `istio-injection: enabled`)

> According to above description, the deployment and network traffic path are showing below:

Reviewer: @zhlsunshine

> According to above description, the deployment and network traffic path are showing below:

Author: already done!

{{< image width="100%"
    link="ambient-to-sidecar.png"
    caption="Ambient sleep to Sidecar httpbin"
    >}}

> `ztunnel` will be deployed as DaemonSet in istio-system namespace if Ambient is enabled, meanwhile, the components of istio-cni and ztunnel would generate separately iptables rules and routes for both ztunnel pod and its node.

Reviewer: @zhlsunshine

> `ztunnel` will be deployed as DaemonSet in istio-system namespace if Ambient is enabled, meanwhile, the components of istio-cni and ztunnel would generate separately iptables rules and routes for both ztunnel pod and its node.

Author: already done!

> All network traffic coming in/out for the pod with Ambient enabled will go through ztunnel based on the network traffic hijacking mechanism. And ztunnel will handle L4 load balance, then forward the request traffic to correct endpoints.

Reviewer: @zhlsunshine

> All network traffic coming in/out for the pod with Ambient enabled will go through ztunnel based on the network traffic hijacking mechanism. And ztunnel will handle L4 load balance, then forward the request traffic to correct endpoints.

Author: already done!

### sleep -> ztunnel -> [ sidecar -> httpbin ] network traffic path

According to above diagram, the details of network traffic path is demonstrated as below:

> **(1) (2) (3)**  Request traffic of service sleep is sent out from `veth` of the sleep pod, then it will be marked and forwarded to the `istioout` device in the node by following the iptables rules and route rules. The `istioout` device in the node A is a `[geneve](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8926.html)` tunnel, and the other side of this tunnel is pair to `pistioout` device which is inside the ztunnel pod of node A.

Author: already done!

> **(4) (5)**  When the traffic arrives `pistioout` device, it goes on to be intercepted to the interface `eth0` of ztunnel pod on port 15001 by iptables rules inside the pod, so far the request traffic goes inside the ztunnel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**(4) (5)**  When the traffic arrives `pistioout` device, it will be intercepted through the interface `eth0` of the ztunnel pod on port 15001 by iptables rules inside the pod.
```

Author: already done!

> **(6)** According to the original request information, ztunnel can obtain the endpoint list of the target service, then it will handle L4 load balance strategy and send the request to one of the Endpoint, such as one of the httpbin pod. At last, the request traffic would get into the httpbin pod via the container network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**(6)** According to the original request information, ztunnel can obtain the endpoint list of the target service.  It will then handle sending the request to the endpoint, such as one of the httpbin pods. At last, the request traffic would get into the httpbin pod via the container network.
```

Author: already done!

> **(7)**  The request traffic arriving in httpbin pod will be intercepted to port 15006 of the sidecar by its iptables rules in Sidecar mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**(7)**  The request traffic arriving in httpbin pod will be intercepted and redirected through port 15006 of the sidecar by its iptables rules.
```

Author: already done!

> **(8)**  Sidecar will handle the inbound request traffic coming in via its port 15006, and forward the request traffic to httpbin container in the same pod.

Author: already done!

## Sidecar sleep to Ambient httpbin and hellowold

> ### ### Deployment and configuation for the second scenario

Reviewer 5: Extra hashtags?

Author: remove the duplicated

- sleep is deployed in namespace foo
    - sleep pod is scheduled to Node A
- httpbin deployed in namespace bar-1
    - httpbin pod is scheduled to Node B
    - the waypoint proxy of httpbin is disable
- helloworld is deployed in namespace bar-2
    - helloworld pod is scheduled to Node D
    - the waypoint proxy of helloworld is enabled
    - the waypoint proxy is scheduled to Node C
- foo namespace enables sidecar injection (foo namespace contains label: `istio-injection: enabled`)
- bar-1 namespace enables ambient mode (bar-1 namespace contains label: `istio.io/dataplane-mode=ambient`)

> According to above description, the deployment and network traffic path are showing below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the above description, the deployment and network traffic paths are:
```

Author: already done!

{{< image width="100%"
    link="sidecar-to-ambient.png"
    caption="sleep to httpbin and helloworld"
    >}}

### [ sleep -> sidecar ] -> ztunnel -> httpbin network traffic path

> Based on the above deployment, the first part is showing on top half of the diagram: the network traffic path of sleep pod in Sidecar mode to httpbin pod in Ambient mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Based on the above deployment, the first part is shown on top half of the diagram: the network traffic path of the sleep pod in sidecar mode to the httpbin pod in ambient mode.
```

Author: already done!

> **(1) (2) (3) (4)** the sleep container sends a request to httpbin, the request is intercepted by iptables rules and directed to port 15001 on the sleep sidecar. Then, the sidecar handles the L7 load balancing and routing rules by following configurations distributed by the control plane. Next, the request traffic is forwarded to a specific httpbin pod in node B, identified by its concrete ip address.

Author: already done!

> **(1) (2) (3) (4)** sleep container send the request to httpbin, the request would be intercepted to port 15001 of the sleep sidecar by iptable rules and the request arrives the sidecar. Then, the sidecar will handle the L7 loadbalance and route logic by following its configuration distributed by control plane. At last, the request traffic will be forwarded to specific httpbin pod with concrete ip address in node B.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
**(1) (2) (3) (4)** the sleep container sends a request to httpbin, the request is intercepted by iptable rules and directed to port 15001 on the sleep sidecar. Then, the sidecar handles the L7 load balancing and routing rules by following configurations distributed by the control plane. Next, the request traffic is forwarded to a specific httpbin pod in node B, identified by its concrete ip address.
```

> **(5) (6)**  After the request is sent to the  device pair (`veth httpbin <-> eth0 inside httpbin pod`),  the request would be intercepted and forwarded to the `istioin` device in the node B where httpbin pod is running by following its iptables rules and route rules. The `istioin` device in the node B is a `[geneve](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8926.html)` tunnel, and the other side of this tunnel is pair to `pistioin` device which is inside the ztunnel pod of node B.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**(5) (6)**  After the request is sent to the device pair (`veth httpbin <-> eth0 inside httpbin pod`), the request would be intercepted and forwarded to the `istioin` device on the node B where httpbin pod is running by following its iptables and route rules. The `istioin` device in the node B is a `[geneve](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8926.html)` tunnel, and the other side of this tunnel is `pistioin` device which is inside the ztunnel pod of node B.
```

Author: already done!

> **(7) (8)** After the request enters the `pistioin` device of the ztunnel pod, the request is intercepted to port 15008 of the ztunnel pod by the iptables rules of the ztunnel pod in node B.

Author: already done!

> **(9)** The traffic getting into the port 15008 would be considered as a inbound request, then ztunnel will forward the request to the httpbin pod in the same node B.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**(9)** The traffic received on port 15008 is considered to be an inbound request, then ztunnel will forward the request to the httpbin pod on the same node.
```

Author: already done!

### [ sleep-> sidecar ] -> waypoint -> ztunnel -> helloworld httpbin network traffic path

> Comparing with the first part of the diagram, it's clear that the waypoint proxy path is added in path **"[ sleep -> sidecar ] -> ztunnel -> httpbin"**, and the extra configuration of waypoint proxy for helloworld service causes this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Comparing with the first part of the diagram, it's clear that the waypoint proxy is added in path **"[ sleep -> sidecar ] -> ztunnel -> httpbin"**.
```

Author: already done!

> What's the background story?

Reviewer: Should this be a header?

Author: this should be the explains to the reason why an extra waypoint proxy is added in the path. I can remove this sentence.

Author: already done!

> The Istiod control plane has all information of service and configuration in the service mesh. When helloworld is configured with waypoint proxy, the EDS configuration of helloworld service received by sidecar of sleep pod will be changed to type of `envoy_internal_address`, this causes that the request traffic going through the internal of envoy will be forwarded to port 15008 of waypoint proxy in node C via `[HBONE](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ofqtxqzk-c_wn0EgAXjaJXDHB9KhDuLe-W3YGG67Y8g/edit)` protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Istio control plane has all information of service and configuration of the service mesh. When helloworld is configured with a waypoint proxy, the EDS configuration of helloworld service received by sidecar of sleep pod will be changed to the type of `envoy_internal_address`. This causes that the request traffic going through the sidecar to be forwarded to port 15008 of the waypoint proxy on node C via the `[HBONE](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ofqtxqzk-c_wn0EgAXjaJXDHB9KhDuLe-W3YGG67Y8g/edit)` protocol.
```

Author: already done!

> Similar with sidecar, waypoint proxy is based on envoy and it will forward the request to helloworld pod based on envoy L7 routing strategy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to sidecar, waypoint proxy is based on envoy and it will forward the request to the helloworld pod based on envoy L7 routing strategy.
```

Author: already done!

## Wrapping up

> Sidecar mode is significant to make Istio as a great service mesh solution, however, it also causes some problems because app and sidecar container must be in a pod together. Istio implements communication among services through centralized proxies (ztunnel and waypoint). This mode provides greater flexibility and scalability, reduces resource consumption, and allows more precise configuration based on demand. Therefore,  it's no doubt that Ambient mode is the evolution of Istio. However, Ambient is currently in alpha stage and is still on the way, and Sidecar mode is still the recommendation installation of Istio, so the coexistence of Sidecar and Ambient may be last for a while before "All in Ambient".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sidecar mode is significant to make Istio a great service mesh solution. However, it also causes some problems because app and sidecar containers must be in a pod together. Istio ambient mode implements communication among services through centralized proxies (ztunnel and waypoint). This mode provides greater flexibility and scalability, reduces resource consumption through not needing a sidecar for each pod in the mesh, and allows more precise configuration. Therefore,  it's no doubt that ambient mode is the next evolution of Istio. Currently, ambient is still alpha and sidecar mode is still the recommended mode of Istio. The coexistence of sidecar and ambient modes may be last for a while before we're "all in ambient".
```

Author: already done!

## Wrapping up

The sidecar mode is what made Istio a great service mesh. However, the sidecar mode can also cause problems as it requires the app and sidecar containers to run in the same pod. Istio ambient mode implements communication among services through centralized proxies (ztunnel and waypoint). The ambient mode provides greater flexibility and scalability, reduces resource consumption as it doesn't require a sidecar for each pod in the mesh, and allows more precise configuration. Therefore, there's no doubt ambient mode is the next evolution of Istio. It's obvious that the coexistence of sidecar and ambient modes may be last a very long time, although the ambient mode is still in alpha stage and the sidecar mode is still the recommended mode of Istio, it will give users a more light-weight option of running and adopting the Istio service mesh as the ambient mode moves towards beta and future releases.

## Reference Resources

> - `[traffic ambient mesh istio cni node configuration](https://www.solo.io/blog/traffic-ambient-mesh-istio-cni-node-configuration/)`
> - `[traffic ambient mesh redirection iptables geneve tunnels](https://www.solo.io/blog/traffic-ambient-mesh-redirection-iptables-geneve-tunnels/)`
> - `[traffic ambient mesh ztunnel-ebpf waypoint](https://www.solo.io/blog/traffic-ambient-mesh-ztunnel-ebpf-waypoint/)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `[Traffic in ambient mesh: Istio CNI and node configuration](https://www.solo.io/blog/traffic-ambient-mesh-istio-cni-node-configuration/)`
- `[Traffic in ambient mesh: Redirection using iptables and GENEVE tunnels](https://www.solo.io/blog/traffic-ambient-mesh-redirection-iptables-geneve-tunnels/)`
- `[Traffic in ambient mesh: ztunnel, eBPF configuration, and waypoint proxies](https://www.solo.io/blog/traffic-ambient-mesh-ztunnel-ebpf-waypoint/)`
```

Reviewer: Good point.

> - `[Traffic in ambient mesh: Istio CNI and node configuration](https://www.solo.io/blog/traffic-ambient-mesh-istio-cni-node-configuration/)`
> - `[Traffic in ambient mesh: Redirection using iptables and GENEVE tunnels](https://www.solo.io/blog/traffic-ambient-mesh-redirection-iptables-geneve-tunnels/)`
> - `[Traffic in ambient mesh: ztunnel, eBPF configuration, and waypoint proxies](https://www.solo.io/blog/traffic-ambient-mesh-ztunnel-ebpf-waypoint/)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Traffic in ambient mesh: Istio CNI and node configuration](https://www.solo.io/blog/traffic-ambient-mesh-istio-cni-node-configuration/)
- [Traffic in ambient mesh: Redirection using iptables and GENEVE tunnels](https://www.solo.io/blog/traffic-ambient-mesh-redirection-iptables-geneve-tunnels/)
- [Traffic in ambient mesh: ztunnel, eBPF configuration, and waypoint proxies](https://www.solo.io/blog/traffic-ambient-mesh-ztunnel-ebpf-waypoint/)
```

@peterj's suggestion was to drop the backticks here, agree on this regard. After this this LGTM
